# Assigment for full-stack internship at Polsource
_________

## What is required to run this project?

Tech/Framework used: PHP + Laravel (Controller. migrations, factory etc were created with the usage of artisan commands)

SQL dialect: MySQL - database name, username and password are written below. (I also mention using XAMPP below but I didn't use MySQL module in XAMPP. I also created user with MySQL Workbench)

For creating this project I used PHPStrom by JetBrains and for creating and managing the database I used DataGrip also created by JetBrains. 

 __________
 
 ## Steps how to run scripts that will setup database for the project.
 
 Datadase that I used for this project is named "zadanie". Username is "root" and the password is "918273". These information can be found in ".env" file. If you named your database or username differently, be sure to change that in ".env" file. 
 
 In my database, there are two entities: notes (the newest notes that are shown on the main page) and archived_notes (all notes: created, deleted, updated etc.)
 
 To create my entities I used migrations - they can be found in database/migrations. The easiest way to create tables in data base is to enter the project folder and run:
 > php artisan migrate
 
 However, in the case when an error may occur, I added script.sql to the project - it contains definitions of the tables in database (automatically generated by DataGrip). 
 
 _________
 
 ## Steps how to build and run the project
 
 As a web server you can use either Artisan server (PHP build-in development server) or any server you prefer - I used Apache + XAMPP Control Panel.

1. Artisan server

You need to enter the project directory with cmd and type Artisan command:
> php artisan serve

and then by default HTTP-server will listen to port 8000. 

2. Apache + XAMPP
 
You need to enter the "Run/Debug Configuration" and then create a configuration for "PHP Web Page". In the configuration field, in the section "server", you need to create new server (i.e. XAMPP) and the host should be, for example localhost (port 80). Then press "Apply" and "OK". When server is already configured, set index.php in "Public" directory as "Start URL". Use browser of your choice.  To start the webservice click on "Run [name of your configuration]"

**Project must be located in htdocs in xampp directory otherwise this method will not work**

**Configuration process is based on how it looks in PHPStorm**

_______

## Example usages (i.e., like example cURL commands to CRUD the notes)

**Exemplary cURL commends to CRUD notes**

1. curl http://localhost/Polsource_zadanie/index.php/ (default method will be GET) -> retreving resources (newest notes) from URL ("/") 

2. curl --request POST (or -d) 'title=SthRandom&text=SomeRandomText'  http://localhost/Polsource_zadanie/index.php/addNote -> sending data with POST method to the recieving web app

3. curl http://localhost/Polsource_zadanie/index.php/[selected id of the note] -X DELETE -> sending DELETE request

4. curl -d 'text=ModifiedRandomText' -X PUT http://localhost/Polsource_zadanie/index.php/edit/[id of the note to update] -> updating content of the selected note
 
